Draft dice and points (#28)
MiniFate/MiniFate: _chapters/04-dice-and-points.md

---
# Dice and Fate Points

<!--- TODO: better name.

- Deciding What Happens
- Narrative Control
- Game Mechanics
- Mechanics
- Taking Action
- Resolving Conflicts

-->

> Dice rolls add an element of tension and unpredictability that keeps your
> story exciting; without them you might as well just write a novel! But they
> should be used sparingly. PCs are competent heroes especially in the things
> their aspects imply they should be good at! If their is no interesting result
> of failing a roll, assume the action happens and move on with the story.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
MiniFate uses dice to add an element of tension and unpredictability to the story.
Without them, you might as well be writing a novel!
That said, you don't need to roll for every little thing. 
As a general rule, the GM should prompt players for a roll in situations where a competent hero might reasonably fail *and* failure adds an interesting twist to the story.
```

Reviewer: I worry about going too deep on the intro blurb for this chapter, and leaving nothing for the skill rolls section to say

Reviewer: How a bout something like:

Intro blurb:

> MiniFate uses dice to add an element of unpredictability to the story.
> Without them, you might as well be writing a novel!
> That said, it's not all up to chance.
> Players can spend fate points to re-roll the dice at dramatically appropriate moments, or even invent new > aspects about the world.
> But watch out---the GM has fate points as well, which they can use to complicate the PCs' lives at just the wrong moment.

Skill Rolls:

> Dice are an important part of MiniFate, but that doesn't mean you need to roll for every little thing.
> As a general rule, the GM should prompt players for a roll in situations where a competent hero might reasonably fail *and* failure adds an interesting twist to the story.
> For example, a ~~Swashbuckling Genius~~ probably doesn't need to roll to fend off an attack by a ~~Nameless Deck-Hand~~... but she might roll `Fight` to subdue him before his friends escape, or `Network` to recognize him.
